README.md, before:

# Learning Kubernetes

## Install kubectl
`` sudo apt-get install -y kubectl ``

## Install docker
`` sudo apt-get install -y docker.io ``

`` sudo systemctl start docker ``

`` sudo systemctl enable docker ``

`` sudo usermod -aG docker $USER ``

## minikube 
is a single node cluster that runs on a virtual machine on your local machine and is used for development and testing purposes.

### Install minikube
`` curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/latest/minikube-linux-amd64 ``
`` sudo install minikube-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/minikube ``

### Start minikube `` minikube start ``

### Stop minikube `` minikube stop ``

# Kubernetes Commands and Concepts
#### Kubernetes consists of a master node and worker nodes where the master node is responsible for managing the cluster and the worker nodes are responsible for running the applications.

#### The master node consists of the following components:
- API Server: It is the entry point for all the REST commands used to interact with the cluster.
- etcd: It is a distributed key-value store used to store the cluster data.
- Scheduler: It is responsible for distributing the workload.
- Controller Manager: It is responsible for regulating the state of the cluster.
- kubelet: It is responsible for communication between the master node and the worker nodes.
- kube-proxy: It is responsible for maintaining the network rules.

#### The worker nodes consist of the following components:
- kubelet: It is responsible for communication between the master node and the worker nodes.
- kube-proxy: It is responsible for maintaining the network rules.
- Container Runtime: It is responsible for running the containers.

### Nodes
- A node can be a physical machine or a virtual machine.
- A node contains the pods that run the applications.
- A node can be created through a command: `` kubectl create node <node-name> ``
- A node can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete node <node-name> ``
- A node can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get node <node-name> ``
- A node can be detailed accessed through a command: `` kubectl describe node <node-name> ``
- A node can be accessed through a service.

### Pods
- A pod is the smallest unit in Kubernetes that can be created, deployed, and managed.
- A pod can contain one or more containers.
- A pod is created through a deployment or a replica set.
- A pod can be created through a command: `` kubectl run nginx --image=nginx ``
- A pod can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete pod <pod-name> ``
- A pod can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f pod.yaml ``
- A pod can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get pod <pod-name> ``
- A pod can be detailed accessed through a command: `` kubectl describe pod <pod-name> ``
- A pod can be accessed through a service.

### Jobs
- A job is used to run a task to completion.
- A job can be ran once or multiple times, and it can be parallel or sequential.
- A job can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f job.yaml ``
- A job can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete job <job-name> ``
- A job can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get job <job-name> ``
- A job can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe job <job-name> ``

### Cron Jobs
- A cron job is used to run a job at a specific time or interval.
- A cron job can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f cronjob.yaml ``
- A cron job can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete cronjob <cronjob-name> ``
- A cron job can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get cronjob <cronjob-name> ``
- A cron job can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe cronjob <cronjob-name> ``
- A cron job can be paused through a command: `` kubectl patch cronjob <cronjob-name> -p '{"spec": {"suspend": true}}' ``
- A cron job can be resumed through a command: `` kubectl patch cronjob <cronjob-name> -p '{"spec": {"suspend": false}}' ``
- A cron job can be forced through a command: `` kubectl create job --from=cronjob/<cronjob-name> <job-name> ``

### Labels and Selectors
- Labels are key-value pairs that are attached to objects.
- Selectors are used to select objects based on labels.
- You can multi match labels with selectors as based on "AND" or "OR" operators in the selector.
- Labels are used to select objects.
- Labels can be added to an object through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml ``
- Labels can be added to an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>=<value> ``
- Labels can be removed from an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>- ``
- Labels can be showed through a command: `` kubectl get object --show-labels ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object -l <key>=<value> `` or `` kubectl get object --selector=<key>=<value> ``

### Annotations
- Annotations are key-value pairs that are attached to objects, its used as informative data.
- Annotations are used to attach metadata to objects.
- Annotations can be added to an object through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml ``
- Annotations can be added to an object through a command: `` kubectl annotate object <object-name> <key>=<value> ``
- Annotations can be removed from an object through a command: `` kubectl annotate object <object-name> <key>- ``
- Annotations can be showed through a command: `` kubectl get object --show-annotations ``

### Namespaces
- Namespaces are used to organize objects in a cluster.
- When accesss some service through a this convention: `` SERVICE_NAME.NAMESPACE_NAME.svc.cluster.local ``
- Namespaces can be created through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f namespace.yaml ``
- Namespaces can be created through a command: `` kubectl create namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be attached to an object through a command with the flag `` --namespace=<namespace-name> `` or `` -n <namespace-name> `` like `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml --namespace=<namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get all --namespace=<namespace-name> `` or `` kubectl get all -n <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be set as default through a command: `` kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=<namespace-name> ``

### Replica Sets
- A replica set is used to create and manage pods.
- A replica set can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f replicaset.yaml ``
- A replica set can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be accessed through a service.
- A replica set can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be scaled up or down through a command: `` kubectl scale replicaset <replicaset-name> --replicas=3 ``
- A replica set can be rolled back through a command: `` kubectl rollout undo replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be rolled out through a command: `` kubectl rollout status replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can get a history through a command: `` kubectl rollout history replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be paused through a command: `` kubectl rollout pause replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be resumed through a command: `` kubectl rollout resume replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be exposed through a service.
- A replica set can be autoscaled through a command: `` kubectl autoscale replicaset <replicaset-name> --min=1 --max=3 --cpu-percent=80 ``
- A replica set can be updated through a command: `` kubectl set image replicaset <replicaset-name> nginx=nginx:1.9.1 ``
- A replica set can be updated through a command: `` kubectl replace -f replicaset.yaml `` 
- A replica set can be updated through a command: `` kubectl edit replicaset <replicaset-name> ``

### Deployments
- A deployment is used to create and manage pods.
- A deployment can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml ``
- A deployment can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be accessed through a service.
- A deployment can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be scaled up or down through a command: `` kubectl scale deployment <deployment-name> --replicas=3 ``
- A deployment can be rolled back through a command: `` kubectl rollout undo deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be rolled out through a command: `` kubectl rollout status deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can get a history through a command: `` kubectl rollout history deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be paused through a command: `` kubectl rollout pause deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be resumed through a command: `` kubectl rollout resume deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be exposed through a service.
- A deployment can be autoscaled through a command: `` kubectl autoscale deployment <deployment-name> --min=1 --max=3 --cpu-percent=80 ``
- A deployment can be updated through a command: `` kubectl set image deployment <deployment-name> nginx=nginx:1.9.1 ``
- A deployment can be updated through a command: `` kubectl replace -f deployment.yaml ``
- A deployment can be updated through a command: `` kubectl edit deployment <deployment-name> ``

## The main difference between a deployment and a replica set is that 
- a deployment is used to manage pods and replica sets, while a replica set is used to manage pods.
- a deployment allows for rolling updates and rollbacks, while a replica set does not.

### Labels and Selectors
- Labels are key-value pairs that are attached to objects.
- Labels are used to select objects.
- Labels can be added to an object through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml ``
- Labels can be added to an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>=<value> ``
- Labels can be removed from an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>- ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object --selector=<key>=<value> ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object --show-labels ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object --selector=<key>=<value> --show-labels ``

### Replication Controllers
- ### Note that a replication controller is deprecated and should be replaced with a replica set because a replica set is more powerful and flexible for managing pods through labels and selectors.
- A replication controller is used to create and manage pods.
- A replication controller can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f replicationcontroller.yaml ``
- A replication controller can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete replicationcontroller <replicationcontroller-name> ``
- A replication controller can be accessed through a service.
- A replication controller can be scaled up or down through a command: `` kubectl scale replicationcontroller <replicationcontroller-name> --replicas=3 ``

### Networking
#### Kubernetes networking has three network services:
- NodePort: It is used to expose a service on a specific port on each node. // mapping the port of the service to the port of the node like 30001:80
- ClusterIP: It is used to expose a service on a cluster-internal IP.
- LoadBalancer: It is used to expose a service externally using a cloud provider's load balancer.

### Services
- A service is used to expose an application running in a pod.
- A service can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f service.yaml ``  
- A service can be created or updated through a command: `` kubectl expose deployment <deployment-name> --type=NodePort --port=80 --target-port=80 ``
- A service can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete service <service-name> ``
- A service can be accessed through a node port, a cluster IP, or a load balancer.
- A service can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get service <service-name> `` or `` kubectl get svc <service-name> ``
- A service can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl describe service <service-name> `` or `` kubectl describe svc <service-name> ``
- A service can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get endpoints <service-name> `` or `` kubectl get ep <service-name> ``

Commit message:

feat: Add Kubernetes architecture documentation
This commit adds documentation in the README.md file about the architecture of Kubernetes. It explains the components of the master and worker nodes, including the API Server, etcd, Scheduler, Controller Manager, kubelet, kube-proxy, and Container Runtime. It also includes an architecture diagram for better visualization. These additions improve the documentation and provide users with a better understanding of the Kubernetes architecture.

README.md, after:

# Learning Kubernetes

## Install kubectl
`` sudo apt-get install -y kubectl ``

## Architecture
- Kubernetes is a container orchestration platform that automates the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
- Kubernetes consists of a master node and worker nodes where the master node is responsible for managing the cluster and the worker nodes are responsible for running the applications.
- The master node consists of the following components:
  - API Server: It is the entry point for all the REST commands used to interact with the cluster.
  - etcd: It is a distributed key-value store used to store the cluster data.
  - Scheduler: It is responsible for distributing the workload.
  - Controller Manager: It is responsible for regulating the state of the cluster.
  - kubelet: It is responsible for communication between the master node and the worker nodes.
  - kube-proxy: It is responsible for maintaining the network rules.
- The worker nodes consist of the following components:
    - kubelet: It is responsible for communication between the master node and the worker nodes.
    - kube-proxy: It is responsible for maintaining the network rules.
    - Container Runtime: It is responsible for running the containers.
![Kubernetes Architecture](https://github.com/islamsamy214/learning-kubernetes/blob/master/kubernetes-arch.png

## Install docker
`` sudo apt-get install -y docker.io ``

`` sudo systemctl start docker ``

`` sudo systemctl enable docker ``

`` sudo usermod -aG docker $USER ``

## minikube 
is a single node cluster that runs on a virtual machine on your local machine and is used for development and testing purposes.

### Install minikube
`` curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/latest/minikube-linux-amd64 ``
`` sudo install minikube-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/minikube ``

### Start minikube `` minikube start ``

### Stop minikube `` minikube stop ``

# Kubernetes Commands and Concepts
#### Kubernetes consists of a master node and worker nodes where the master node is responsible for managing the cluster and the worker nodes are responsible for running the applications.

#### The master node consists of the following components:
- API Server: It is the entry point for all the REST commands used to interact with the cluster.
- etcd: It is a distributed key-value store used to store the cluster data.
- Scheduler: It is responsible for distributing the workload.
- Controller Manager: It is responsible for regulating the state of the cluster.
- kubelet: It is responsible for communication between the master node and the worker nodes.
- kube-proxy: It is responsible for maintaining the network rules.

#### The worker nodes consist of the following components:
- kubelet: It is responsible for communication between the master node and the worker nodes.
- kube-proxy: It is responsible for maintaining the network rules.
- Container Runtime: It is responsible for running the containers.

### Nodes
- A node can be a physical machine or a virtual machine.
- A node contains the pods that run the applications.
- A node can be created through a command: `` kubectl create node <node-name> ``
- A node can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete node <node-name> ``
- A node can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get node <node-name> ``
- A node can be detailed accessed through a command: `` kubectl describe node <node-name> ``
- A node can be accessed through a service.

### Pods
- A pod is the smallest unit in Kubernetes that can be created, deployed, and managed.
- A pod can contain one or more containers.
- A pod is created through a deployment or a replica set.
- A pod can be created through a command: `` kubectl run nginx --image=nginx ``
- A pod can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete pod <pod-name> ``
- A pod can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f pod.yaml ``
- A pod can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get pod <pod-name> ``
- A pod can be detailed accessed through a command: `` kubectl describe pod <pod-name> ``
- A pod can be accessed through a service.

### Jobs
- A job is used to run a task to completion.
- A job can be ran once or multiple times, and it can be parallel or sequential.
- A job can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f job.yaml ``
- A job can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete job <job-name> ``
- A job can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get job <job-name> ``
- A job can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe job <job-name> ``

### Cron Jobs
- A cron job is used to run a job at a specific time or interval.
- A cron job can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f cronjob.yaml ``
- A cron job can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete cronjob <cronjob-name> ``
- A cron job can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get cronjob <cronjob-name> ``
- A cron job can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe cronjob <cronjob-name> ``
- A cron job can be paused through a command: `` kubectl patch cronjob <cronjob-name> -p '{"spec": {"suspend": true}}' ``
- A cron job can be resumed through a command: `` kubectl patch cronjob <cronjob-name> -p '{"spec": {"suspend": false}}' ``
- A cron job can be forced through a command: `` kubectl create job --from=cronjob/<cronjob-name> <job-name> ``

### Labels and Selectors
- Labels are key-value pairs that are attached to objects.
- Selectors are used to select objects based on labels.
- You can multi match labels with selectors as based on "AND" or "OR" operators in the selector.
- Labels are used to select objects.
- Labels can be added to an object through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml ``
- Labels can be added to an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>=<value> ``
- Labels can be removed from an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>- ``
- Labels can be showed through a command: `` kubectl get object --show-labels ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object -l <key>=<value> `` or `` kubectl get object --selector=<key>=<value> ``

### Annotations
- Annotations are key-value pairs that are attached to objects, its used as informative data.
- Annotations are used to attach metadata to objects.
- Annotations can be added to an object through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml ``
- Annotations can be added to an object through a command: `` kubectl annotate object <object-name> <key>=<value> ``
- Annotations can be removed from an object through a command: `` kubectl annotate object <object-name> <key>- ``
- Annotations can be showed through a command: `` kubectl get object --show-annotations ``

### Namespaces
- Namespaces are used to organize objects in a cluster.
- When accesss some service through a this convention: `` SERVICE_NAME.NAMESPACE_NAME.svc.cluster.local ``
- Namespaces can be created through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f namespace.yaml ``
- Namespaces can be created through a command: `` kubectl create namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be attached to an object through a command with the flag `` --namespace=<namespace-name> `` or `` -n <namespace-name> `` like `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml --namespace=<namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe namespace <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get all --namespace=<namespace-name> `` or `` kubectl get all -n <namespace-name> ``
- Namespaces can be set as default through a command: `` kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=<namespace-name> ``

### Replica Sets
- A replica set is used to create and manage pods.
- A replica set can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f replicaset.yaml ``
- A replica set can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be accessed through a service.
- A replica set can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be scaled up or down through a command: `` kubectl scale replicaset <replicaset-name> --replicas=3 ``
- A replica set can be rolled back through a command: `` kubectl rollout undo replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be rolled out through a command: `` kubectl rollout status replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can get a history through a command: `` kubectl rollout history replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be paused through a command: `` kubectl rollout pause replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be resumed through a command: `` kubectl rollout resume replicaset <replicaset-name> ``
- A replica set can be exposed through a service.
- A replica set can be autoscaled through a command: `` kubectl autoscale replicaset <replicaset-name> --min=1 --max=3 --cpu-percent=80 ``
- A replica set can be updated through a command: `` kubectl set image replicaset <replicaset-name> nginx=nginx:1.9.1 ``
- A replica set can be updated through a command: `` kubectl replace -f replicaset.yaml `` 
- A replica set can be updated through a command: `` kubectl edit replicaset <replicaset-name> ``

### Deployments
- A deployment is used to create and manage pods.
- A deployment can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml ``
- A deployment can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be accessed through a service.
- A deployment can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be detailed through a command: `` kubectl describe deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be scaled up or down through a command: `` kubectl scale deployment <deployment-name> --replicas=3 ``
- A deployment can be rolled back through a command: `` kubectl rollout undo deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be rolled out through a command: `` kubectl rollout status deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can get a history through a command: `` kubectl rollout history deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be paused through a command: `` kubectl rollout pause deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be resumed through a command: `` kubectl rollout resume deployment <deployment-name> ``
- A deployment can be exposed through a service.
- A deployment can be autoscaled through a command: `` kubectl autoscale deployment <deployment-name> --min=1 --max=3 --cpu-percent=80 ``
- A deployment can be updated through a command: `` kubectl set image deployment <deployment-name> nginx=nginx:1.9.1 ``
- A deployment can be updated through a command: `` kubectl replace -f deployment.yaml ``
- A deployment can be updated through a command: `` kubectl edit deployment <deployment-name> ``

## The main difference between a deployment and a replica set is that 
- a deployment is used to manage pods and replica sets, while a replica set is used to manage pods.
- a deployment allows for rolling updates and rollbacks, while a replica set does not.

### Labels and Selectors
- Labels are key-value pairs that are attached to objects.
- Labels are used to select objects.
- Labels can be added to an object through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f object.yaml ``
- Labels can be added to an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>=<value> ``
- Labels can be removed from an object through a command: `` kubectl label object <object-name> <key>- ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object --selector=<key>=<value> ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object --show-labels ``
- Labels can be selected through a command: `` kubectl get object --selector=<key>=<value> --show-labels ``

### Replication Controllers
- ### Note that a replication controller is deprecated and should be replaced with a replica set because a replica set is more powerful and flexible for managing pods through labels and selectors.
- A replication controller is used to create and manage pods.
- A replication controller can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f replicationcontroller.yaml ``
- A replication controller can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete replicationcontroller <replicationcontroller-name> ``
- A replication controller can be accessed through a service.
- A replication controller can be scaled up or down through a command: `` kubectl scale replicationcontroller <replicationcontroller-name> --replicas=3 ``

### Networking
#### Kubernetes networking has three network services:
- NodePort: It is used to expose a service on a specific port on each node. // mapping the port of the service to the port of the node like 30001:80
- ClusterIP: It is used to expose a service on a cluster-internal IP.
- LoadBalancer: It is used to expose a service externally using a cloud provider's load balancer.

### Services
- A service is used to expose an application running in a pod.
- A service can be created or updated through a yaml file: `` kubectl apply -f service.yaml ``  
- A service can be created or updated through a command: `` kubectl expose deployment <deployment-name> --type=NodePort --port=80 --target-port=80 ``
- A service can be deleted through a command: `` kubectl delete service <service-name> ``
- A service can be accessed through a node port, a cluster IP, or a load balancer.
- A service can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get service <service-name> `` or `` kubectl get svc <service-name> ``
- A service can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl describe service <service-name> `` or `` kubectl describe svc <service-name> ``
- A service can be accessed through a command: `` kubectl get endpoints <service-name> `` or `` kubectl get ep <service-name> ``
